# offensive

# phishing




# Old Writing ----
(Phase I)

When I started this project, my initial thought was to analyze phishing emails to understand their rhetorical patterns and how they operate so sucessfully, despite the seemlingly massive, public knowledge about what a phishing email actually is.

## About
Phase one of this project focuses on research. In this section, I make available rhetorical analysis of various phishing email categories and security awareness training materials. Each section will have a main page with a general description of the work contained within, and how I arrived at those conclusions. Within each section are subsections of the specififc analyses done. I intend to use the information learned here to produce content for Phase 2.

## Phishing Email Overview
As a general overview, what I've discovered in researching phishing email campaigns is that while personal solicitation and bulk phishing is still commonplace, more technologically sophisticated methods have been much more successful in getting the information the phishers are looking for. By depositing a payload in the forum of malware, phishers can access whatever they'd like without having to convice someone to give their info into a fake login page or elsewhere. If the email manages to bypass virus and spam filters, it's much easier to gather data and credentials not only from the individual they successfully compromised, but others within an organization as well. That's not to say we shouldn't be careful about other types of phishing - we definitely should - but the focus should be on understanding how the transmission vectors work for malspam because they so often mimick genuine communications, sometimes with the only indication it might be fake being poor grammar.

## Motivations for Phishing Attacks

## SAT Overview

# Phishing Emails
Since phishing emails are mimicry of legitimate communication, an analysis of the act itself (and not necessarily of the attacker) is what I have chosen to analyze. If we can understand what the rhetorical situations of these phishing emails are, we can understand how they affect the phishing victim. In this examination, the victim is the audience, and the attacker is the author.

I'm also looking at these emails through the lens of Baudrillard's simulacrum - in essence, I see these emails, especially the latter, as hyper-real. These phishing emails can mimic actual emails from corporations or prominent individuals so well that they become those emails to the uninitiated. A potential phishing victim sees this representation of reality - the hyperreality - as actual reality, so how do we deconstruct what's happening to bring the potential victim back to our own, real reality?

Whew.

Keeping in mind my consideration of the simulacrum should hopefully make sense of some of my analysis. I did also consider spending time analyzing ideas about why the phisher acted outside of the rhetorical situation of an email. However, the problem therein is that I can't get a clear answer from the attacker (who is an author in this context) because I don't know who they are. I can only assume it's profit, which could be a money or data flavored payload. (Or something else entirely. Lulz?) Further examination of the rationale for cybercrime would be an interesting study, but one that's outside the scope of this project for now.

The following explanation of my framework is what I used to understand the artifacts when performing my analyses, essentially functioning as a rubric for understanding how a specific category of phishing emails work. I looked at roughly eight areas to form my analysis: the rhetorical situation, author, audience, intent, content, form, context, and cultural identity of the attacker and victim. I looked at how the rhetorical appeals (ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos) came into play, as well as how the idea of hyperreality, mimicry, and simulation manifested in the situation.

### Why was the email sent?
The rhetorical situation was the first point of entry in my analysis so I could understand the act of sending an email at its base level. Since the email is not a genuine communication, but one masquerading as one, I considered the opportunity created and presented by this act of deception. I also considered how the situation was presented and interpreted by the victim. Is the email seemingly being sent from someone with an existing relationship to the victim? Alternatively, is the email more along the lines of the Nigerian Prince looking to spread his fortune to a lucky recipient? Perhaps it is a personal solicitation, a request for more information, or someone reaching out to the victim or the victim's company for the first time. What is the simulated power dynamic present between the audience and author in the situation? What prompted the email to be sent, outside of being a phishing attack? In considering the situation, I had to look at both the author (the attacker's false identity) and the audience (the victim).

### Who sent the email?
I examined who the author of the text purported to be. I specifically looked for markers of ethos both in the email header and the body of the message. What I found interesting was that in some cases, the email header masked (spoofed) the sender's real email address. (My personal favorite was from "Trashcan G. Straitjacket.") Other times, the email was left unmasked. Why would they have chosen not to spoof the email header? It's possible that the attacker lacks knowledge on spoofing, and hoped the victim wouldn't notice the sender's address. It could have been other technical considerations, but we won't know in regards to these emails. However, we can look at how the spoof (or lack thereof) affected the hyperreality of the phishing email. While the lack of spoof was a dead giveaway to me, what about to a potential victim - Would they notice? How does the author make up for this potential dismantling of ethos? I was especially curious to see if there was extra effort put forth into the content of the unmasked emails, so I included that as a point of consideration in my analysis as well.

### Who was the email's intended recipient?
After considering the author, I considered the audience of the email. Whom did the author intend to speak with? Was the email targetted towards an individual, or was it sent in a more general sort of way? A point I fixated on was whether or not the audience and author's false identity shared any common values. This is connected to the rhetorical situation's point of whether or not there was an existing relationship - perhaps there's been business conducted or potential new hire. In considering the primary audience, I also considered a potential secondary audience. If the recipient of the email wasn't its intended target, how does the attacker work to get access to whom it desires?

### What's the email's content and form?
Next, I looked at the content and form of the emails and how the two worked together to deliver the main argument. At its base form, I looked at the emails through the rhetorical triangle, seeing how the author used ethos, pathos, and logos to form an argument to the victim. In terms of argumentation logic, I chose to use Toulmin's methodology for understanding how the attacker forms their argument. I identify the overall claim of the email, the grounds for which it stands, and the warrants underlying the argument.

In terms of ethos, I look into how the author expresses their institutional markers or company branding if any. I also considered whether or not the email has an appropriate sense of formality for the situation present. If it's a business email, is it written as a business email would be expected to, or is it too personal? How does the author utilize market terminology? Is there a message of safety or security within the email? Personal solicitation emails follow a different structure, and so I look at how they appeal to ethos through the use of nationality, politeness, and potential religiosity. Perhaps unsurprisingly, religion seems to be a theme in solicitation emails as it sets up a (potentially) shared value system. Finally, I look to see how the author is addressing themselves, or rather, whom they're pretending to be. Is it a CEO, a no-reply mailbox, or something else?

Pathos presents itself generally as a fear-based appeal in phishing emails, threating account disconnection or compromise. However, there are other markers you can find as well, especially in more personalized emails. These tend to encompass ideas of charity, excitability, honor, or adventure, and feed the ego of the victim, hoping that they act on "good faith." Conversely, some emails may seek to beat down a victim's ego and make them act due to perceived failure or lack of something, whatever that may be in the situation.

Logos is usually straightforward in these phishing emails, so I looked at how the author presents the "facts" of the situation - how is the email formatted? What sort of contact information is left for the victim to respond? Is there financial specificity to the email? Perhaps it's an attachment that needs to get to someone, or somewhere, with your help. Logos could be in the way someone states they need money transferred immediately to an account. It could also be as simple as "your account has been compromised, click here to fix it." Logos is a tricky appeal in these situations since the emails are not genuine communication. At the base level, what I'm looking for are acts and evidence presented to convince the victim the argument (in this case, email,) is legitimate.

Finally, kairos presents itself in how the emails express a sense of urgency to act, which generally presents itself as an account compromise, an urgent request from a higher-up, or some other action that requires an immediate response. Primarily, I'm looking for the call to action and how severe it is. I did consider the type of email for this analysis, so for instance, if it were a clone phishing email, that analysis would look very different for spearphishing or malspam. Alternatively, if it were a personal solicitation email, perhaps it more closely follows the genre of letter writing over the more quid-pro-quo style of business communications. In that instance, I would look at how the email operates through that lens of inquiry. Genre theory helps me understand how communication is structured in specific instances, but it is not the main focus in these analyses.

And with content, comes form. I examined the structure of the text, imagery, and use of color. Does the organization of the email make it seem legitimate? What about proper language syntax? Are there spelling and grammatical errors you wouldn't expect to see in business communications? What about colloquialisms or technical terms? Additionally, I look at the email's formatting in terms of HTML and visual aids such as logos, color, and any other type of branding. My focus here is primarily about proper construction through language, both textual and visual.

### What is the email trying to do?
After I identified and understood content and form, I shifted focus towards how that manifested intent. Since the email is a simulation of real communication, I looked to see how the author presented their false intention. Was it a direct copy and paste from a legitimate email? If not, what sorts of persuasive techniques did the author use to convince the victim? I considered things such as the aggressiveness of delivery, and how exigency is demonstrated. I also considered word choices and how they related to persuasion - was it fear-based? How did the author incorporate those previously identified rhetorical appeals into their email to form an argument? How did these elements (or lack thereof) demonstrate exigency to the victim? Ultimately at this stage, I sought to understand how the email managed to mask the author's actual intention and its potential for convincing a victim (or not.)

### How do content and form affect interpretation?
Now that I understand the email's context and content, I move on to how that matches intent. That may seem obvious at first (to phish someone, right?) but we need to look a bit deeper with a few different viewpoints. The first viewpoint is the attacker's, and their purpose is obvious: to persuade the victim into compromising themselves. What about the presented author of the email - what is their intent? What about the victim's intent after reading the email? Since it's a triadic "relationship" masked as dyadic between the audience and author, an understanding of how the mimicry entwines itself with intent is necessary. So how does the real author do this effectively, without blowing their cover?

People respond to these emails because they work - 97% of people even state they can't tell the difference between regular and phishing email. These attacks succeed because the victims believe the author's intent to be genuine. This misunderstanding is due to a lot of different factors mentioned above - percieved existing relationships, persuasive techniques (especially those involving emotion) and other similarities in value systems between the email's "author" and the victim.

### How do these emails correspond to the nature of the attacker, victim, and their corresponding cultures?
Finally, I took all of these previous points to understand the nature of the phishing emails, and what it revealed about the production of phishing emails and their creators. I wanted to understand how these elements create an identity of the phisher themselves and their perception of their victims. I also looked to understand the culture of the phishing victims, both as an individual and the corporate culture surrounding security awareness. It's a fascinating question to think of - how does an attacker piece together what they perceive as the victim's identity? How do they know who the person is that they're targetting? These questions are more easily answered in some cases than others. For instance, bulk emails tend to care little about whom they reach, more that they reach someone; one successful attempt out of 10,000 still means payday, after all.

### So...now what?
This framework allowed me to move onwards towards analyzing security awareness training as well. The combination of both email and training analyses has led me onto some exciting discoveries, which I get into more in-depth within Phase 2. For now, enjoy reading the categorical analyses. At the bottom of the analysis are cards linking you to the artifacts used in the specific analysis category selected. Any risk of compromise (either through fake links or malware) is removed, so feel secure in viewing the artifacts. If you'd prefer to look at a more detailed list of the artifacts and where they've come from, please select the corpus link to view everything I use.

## Bulk
Bulk phishing is the most common type of attack, and the least technologically sophisticated. They work through impersonation of a corporation or organization and threatening or urgent-sounding language to obtain information and credentials. These emails tend not to be personalized, even if they claim they are, and may only reference general information. At first, I was going to present these emails as separate analyses based on the company of origination. As I conducted my analysis, I realized that all of the emails I collected from both the Enron Dataset and outside shared enough similarities to group together without losing understanding. If you'd like to see any of the emails I have referenced in this analysis outside of the images provided, please feel free to click on the image to be directed to the source.

It's important to note that the emails from the Enron Dataset come from the early to mid-2000s, giving a specific contextual situation in regards to privacy concerns. Identity theft was a topic of conversation for many people, as millions of Americans were victims of identity theft each year in the early 2000s. The foundation of the famous ID theft protection company LifeLock occurred in 2005. Cybercrime complaints trended upwards and continue to grow. The concern for privacy and protection has only increased since then, and while it may not have the same type of extreme marketing it once did, it's still a genuine fear phishing emails can use to their advantage to make the emails appear even more legitimate.

I selected a variety of types of phishing emails from the Enron Dataset to understand how they could operate in different contexts. The four companies I targetted in this dataset were Amazon, Chase Bank, eBay, and PayPal. I chose these companies purely due to familiarity with their emails from this period and felt that I would be able to analyze them better than those from a company I did not conduct business with at that time. Outside of the Enron Dataset, there were only three emails: a maintenance notification from Indiana.edu, a free World of Warcraft gift, and an iTunes account notice. Unsurprisingly, they operated similarly to the emails in the Enron Dataset. While the companies are varied, the emails seem to operate on the same basic premise that some notice, alert, or issue with a customer's account or activity has come up. With each email, the intended recipient was assumed to have been a customer of the company contacting them, either randomly targetted or contacted due to recent account activity. A common theme indicated to the recipient that their account information was incorrect, typically manifesting in some violation to account policies or procedures if not updated. Generally, the emails present themselves to the recipient as urgent and that their account was in jeopardy.

For example, these particular Amazon emails [amazon 2 & amazon 4] give very legal sounding notices that they're violating terms of the User Agreement and are at risk of being terminated. Another typical report seen in Chase and PayPal phishing emails was unauthorized access to an account, attempts to access the account from foreign IPs, or unauthorized purchases. The odd thing about these emails was that the punishment for not acting on them seemed to be disabling or terminating the account. That's a bizarre practice for a legitimate business to do and is a general giveaway for it being a phishing attempt. The majority of these emails hit hard on ideas of presenting shared values of privacy, safety, and maintaining the existing business relationship with the victim, but often the presentation is murky and convoluted. It's a bit of a mess, but I can only assume that many people have fallen for this based on the language alone. If you're not reading carefully, it's easy to see how someone could see an email like this as legitimate.

Ethos seems to be established by the sender through the use of brand logos, legal text, and formal language. Amazon identifies with the victim through an existing business relationship, and thus by merit of having a working relationship, establishes itself as legitimate. Chase and PayPal phishing emails use this tactic as well, communicating to the victim as a "member" and highlighting the importance of privacy and security. There is often mention that the email cannot be replied to, as it is unmonitored, which is a pretty standard formality within business communications. A lot of them use logos or other images pulled directly from the websites themselves, with many antiquated images still routing back to the websites even in 2019!When is this even from???

Perhaps a successful anti-phishing strategy from companies could be dynamically named assets to prevent this sort of thing, at least in part. These emails also assert authority through forceful and strong language, lack of emotional influence, and links or quotations of various policies within the company. Overall, these phishing emails present the companies involved as concerned with the privacy of its users and the safety of the community, but not afraid to use legal force or threat of account termination to obtain the necessary information to run its business.

Overall, phishing emails from the dataset tend to either convince the recipient to act on fear of having their account closed or compromised, or inform there is a problem. While some emails use a gentler approach, often they are very forceful in describing what the recipient has done wrong and how to fix it. They are trying to force the hand of the audience to act. Sometimes, such as this example from Amazon [Amazon 2], they go so far as to implicate the recipient in being a potential cause for the community having less integrity as a ploy upon the need for people to want to feel "good" or upstanding. Therefore, the recipient needs to act if they want to have those qualities. Other times it is unbiased and informative, attempting persuasion through the presentation of facts with an easy solution such as the account becoming locked due to multiple incorrect login attempts, or an order failed due to billing information. While the threatening letters operate based on fear and can be very efficient to garner an emotional response, there is something to be said about an email that gives the victim nothing to think about, with an easy solution.

Since these emails intend to phish, and not inform or protect, often they present legitimate links or information with the malicious (and real intention) hidden underneath. Often the email header shows from the email originates from "Amazon," but the email address is something like aw-confirm@ebay.com, which does not make sense. I think my favorite example is one sent from Trashcan G. Straitjacket representing Chase from the email aw-confirm@chase.com. It's evident from that fact alone it's not a real email from Chase Bank. Overall, the language in these phishing emails feels valid, so someone unsuspecting may not see these types of warnings. For more complex emails, they have asked to verify the information by requesting an upload or fax of identification documents, with a retort that they only request this info from their home site, not through emails, after which they give a link to provide said information. By using harsh, legal language and placing seeds of doubt about the integrity of the recipient, these emails can also create an emotional response to a "serious issue" which doesn't give the recipient time to think about the true reality of the message.

One interesting use of emotional appeal was an email sent by eBay stating that they were closing the service due to repeated abused on their company, whatever that means. It prompted the victim to click whether or not they feel eBay should remain open. At the bottom of the message, it stated the reason the victim received the email is due to their "good account standing." It's buttering up the victim to give them information based on their inherent value to the eBay Community. At the bottom of the email, there is a notice stating their "registered name is included to show this message originated from eBay." However, the email is addressed to "eBay Community." That's a strange name for a person, but at a glance, it seems legitimate enough. This email is an excellent example of how a quick and straightforward request, which likely prompted the victim to "log in" to submit their survey response, can open up someone to having their information stolen.

Often these emails use logos (the rhetorical appeal, not branding!) to try and reason with the user. Examples of this include statements such as a victim's account information being invalid due to verification issues during payment. It seems very straightforward and no-nonsense. It was the victim's mistake, so they are following up. As noted above, some emails have used pathos to make the user feel bad about particular actions, and attempt to make the member feel like a "bad" Amazon community member for not having their information up to date, which does not make sense logically. These emails are manufactured to create a response in which the victim doesn't think, only act, which is an excellent use of emotional charge to get a response. Much of these emails rely on a "slippery slope" argument, which states that because their information is out of date, they are at risk of having their account terminated. No respecting business would forcefully shut down someone's account for typing in something incorrectly - that's terrible business-customer relations, after all. Even so, the overly exaggerated threat of closure mixed with vague and intentionally confusing legal speak was a popular trope presented in Amazon phishing emails. A manufactured exigency is present in nearly all of these emails due to the extreme urgency of the situation. Whether it be an account compromise, forceful closure, or the order becoming delayed, there is an opportunity for a response from a variety of people, which is what makes these bulk phishing scams so incredibly effective.

Most of the emails appear as standard business communications, following that genre's form and conventions quite well with minimal emotive language, vague yet formal communications, and consistent mentions of privacy, safety, and copyrights. What seems to be the biggest issue with these emails is visual inconsistencies that break the simulation they're projecting. However, there are a few glaring formatting and grammatical errors that take away from the presentation of the message, such as "If you do not update your billing informations your access on Amazon features will be restricted and the user deleted." [amazon 1] You see this in emails from Chase as well, with some being blatantly phishing emails due to poor grammar and images in the wrong places. [Chase 1] Most breaks in the illusion have been formatting concerns, with footer placement broken into sections or the use of a plain-text link. An example of this is one email that says "Amazon" as opposed to their logo. It's an incredible disappointment because the email could be so much more effective with minimal effort on the phisher's part.

Another notable example stated, "Note: We will be upgrading our yearly SSL EncryptedServer to prevent fraudulent activity." [amazon 3] If you are at all familiar with SSL, this doesn't make sense. Even to someone who is not, "EncryptedServer" looks strange. A cursory Google search of "SSL EncryptedServer" pulled up only phishing email examples from various sources. Oops!

However, even with those errors, the email form generally seemed to complement the content. Logo placement "seems" correct on most of the emails, and the text feels reasonable, given the nature of the emails. The main ideas of the message correspond well with the form of business communication. Knowing these are intended for people to make quick responses on, I'm not sure if their intended victims would notice the errors I noticed. Especially when you consider emails such as the free pet in World of Warcraft - if the victim is an active player, they might be too excited to notice that it doesn't even say who sent the email! [warcraft] A lot of these emails certainly create a sense of urgency in a "do this now, or you're in trouble" sort of way. The errors that present the threat are vague enough to have someone click a link to make sure everything is okay. Some of these emails have been so convincing, they're challenging to tell apart from legitimate emails! In that respect, I believe the emails convey their manufactured intent effectively.

Overall, bulk phishing relies on existing business communications with the victim and the ability to mimic those communications well. The attacks have gotten more sophisticated, and the ability to mask links through services such as bit.ly and others only make detecting these in both spam filters and the individual more difficult. Since this is merely an analysis of how the bulk phishing emails operate, I will not go into detail on how to detect whether or not the addresses are legitimate, or how to protect yourself. That is reserved for sections in Phase 2: Training.

## Clone
A clonephishing attack takes an email and copies it word for word, changing links to malicious sites. The sending email is generally spoofed, so it looks legitimate to the unaware. These attacks can also mimic requests to share documents through places like Google Drive, DocuSign, or Dropbox, prompting users to enter login credentials, which allows the attackers to gain access to their files; this seems to be the most common method of clonephishing attack I've observed so far.

Clonephishing is a unique type of phishing, philosophically speaking. We can see it technically as a simple copy & paste job, with sprinkles of spoofing. But if we think about it on a theoretical level, it's something much more. I've generally analyzed phishing emails using the rhetorical appeals, but this genre is a bit different. I can look at how these emails establish their ethos, but really, it's examining how a phisher mimicked a brand's chosen style of communication. I think more so that these emails are a representation of the simulacrum. Baudrillard states that the phase order of the image is as follows (p.6 of simulacra & simulation): reflection, masking/denaturing, absence, and pure simulacrum. Reflection, which we believe to be a faithful copy of the original, a "sacramental" representation. Masking and denaturing, which covers the actual reality from us, but may hint at the obscured reality. Then absence, a representation of an original without an original. And finally, simulacrum, which is a representation without grounding within reality. If we think about emails as an "image," then the representation of these emails as real and "correct" representations of emails from the actual company versus a perversion by a phishing attempt can be followed in the order chain above quite easily.

To demonstrate this, I'm going to use the Podesta email [Podesta] as an example in this analysis. While the other examples do fall into the same category, I don't believe they achieve the same growth in the image chain described above. If you are unfamiliar with this specific phishing email, it was responsible for one of the most significant controversies in the 2016 presidential campaign. Aside from accusations of collusion, Russian Interference (or rather, the spectacle of Russian Interference,) and conversations that remove the veil that classified the Democratic elite as "common people", the compromise of Podesta's account have shown the inner workings of Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and have impacted how the public perceives the authenticity of politicians. It's also created an even bigger specter of Russian Hackers than had existed prior. In a sense, the release of these emails started a progression of blaming Russian Hackers on everything that is incredibly reminiscent of McCarthyism. Yes, there was a concentrated effort on US politicians and defense agencies, but knowing that they had targets in 116 countries leads me to believe it was not a matter of focused aggression, but a success in a long list of targets they were after, some of which included the Pope's Kiev representative, the punk band Pussy Riot, and numerous Russian journalists and oppositionists. I do not deny that the breach had Russian actors, but to state that Fancy Bear (the group that's believed to be responsible for the leak) is an official arm of Russian Intelligence meant to bring down the United States is founded upon propaganda, a desire for a scapegoat, and ultimately a distraction in the midst of all the controversy generated from the breaches themselves.

Podesta's phishing emailA legitimate email from Google
Moving back to the email itself, we can see the clonephish was successful against Podesta for a few reasons. Technologically speaking, it succeeded because Gmail's spam filter didn't detect the bit.ly link, even though it was a direct copy of one of their emails with a malicious link. The spam filter had no way of telling and let the email go through uninterrupted. But this failure (or success, depending on how you look at it) was inherently due to human error - and what I believe to be a near-perfect representation of simulacrum.

Let's do a brief analysis of the Podesta phishing email (top) while comparing it to a legitimate email (bottom) I received on an alt account after I tried to sign in on a trip. We see that it has nearly every marker of a legitimate Gmail email, from colors to styling. The language is near identical, as well. The email states that Google is notifying them that someone used their password to try and sign in to their Google Account in Ukraine on 19 March 2017 and that the user should change their password to avoid being compromised. The "From" tag is marked as "no-reply@accounts.googlemail.com," which is almost what a legitimate email would come from. The main body text of the email is very similar as well, and the only difference seems to be that the phishing email states an IP address, where the official email does not provide that information. As far as the signature, the only telling difference is that the phishing email is signed off with "Best, The Gmail team," whereas the official one is signed off with, "Best, the Google Accounts Team." It's easy to see just based on these visual markers alone that this email is a phishing attempt.

Charles Delevan, the Hillary For America help desk tech contacted regarding the phishing email, even stated, "This is a legitimate email. John needs to change his password immediately, and ensure that two-factor authentication is turned on his account." They then go on to provide a link to change the password as well. But the compromise indicates that Podesta did not, indeed, follow Delavan's advice and instead clicked on the link in the phishing email. It's at this point where the idea of the email being a simulacrum comes into play.

The email has become hyperreal. First, it's existence is accepted as real, and has passed the first test - a "good appearance" of a proper email from Google notifying you that your account was compromised. Because the email is indeed a phishing attempt, it then passes the second order by "masking and denaturing" the email's intentions. That mask has become its own "sorcery," removing the profound reality, that the email is legitimate and from Google, and fulfills the third order. And finally, because it has become a simulation with no reality that matches the intent of the "good appearance," it has become simulation. Thus with the four steps fulfilled, the email itself and perhaps phishing emails, in general, have become a simulacrum in themselves.

Because the email had become a simulacrum to Delevan, there was no indication that it shouldn't have been treated as a phishing attempt. I would venture to say that this is how many of these clonephishing emails operate, especially emails that remain as close to the source material as possible. The trouble with attempting to teach people about these types of phishing emails then is not one where we can point out typical markers such as poor grammar or an improper email header. Indeed, those things did exist in the Podesta phishing email, but the variations were so small that it is incredibly easy to look over. The focus on educating about clonephishing then relies on challenging the default setting when reviewing emails in general and perhaps adopting a sort of paranoia about every message you get. While it may sound extreme, perhaps we are a bit too trusting in giving our information out as willingly as we do.

## Malspam
Malspam has malware or a malicious redirect script within a phishing email. Typically comes across as an email requesting someone to examine a file, which then downloads malware onto the individual's computer. Some famous examples of these types of attacks at work include Cryptolocker, Lokibot, and WannaCry. Malspam can also include the category of pharming, which is a phishing attack that doesn't necessarily rely on someone falling for the bait. The code is injected into a user's computer from a clicked link, which redirects someone to a malicious site using a technique called DNS cache poisoning. This attack changes the information stored in your cache and redirects the user to a site that looks legitimate in both URL and design. That means you're logging into the malicious site until that cache is flushed, even if you type in the website address yourself. It's nearly undetectable after it's happened, and you won't know until after it's happened that your information is compromised. Malspam is a dangerous beast and one that deserves attention.

In regards to rhetorical analysis, I'm going to approach the Malspam section a bit differently than the others for a few reasons. I realized very quickly looking at Malspam that they tended to mimic a variety of examples and that perhaps as a category for rhetorical analysis, it needed to be treated a bit differently. To be clear, these aren't the only ways in which malware is transmitted, but they are illustrative examples of this phishing genre.

### Boeing 737 Max
The first email I looked at for this analysis was one that comes from Joshua Berlinger, a "private inteligent analyst." That is not my typo; that was how the author presented themselves. What's interesting is that Joshua Berlinger is a digital reporter and producer from CNN out of Hong Kong, and I presume the phisher used this information in hopes that the recipient would believe that Mr. Berlinger himself is contacting them to save the recipient, their family, and friends. A cursory Google search combining Isgec and Berlinger's name produced no results outside of this phishing email and CNN's profile page; he has no connection to Isgec as far as I am aware. While the phisher is using a potentially high profile name and company, their ethos is diminished due to numerous grammatical and spelling errors. While it could be shrugged off as a message written urgently to inform the recipient of impending danger, a little spellcheck might not have hurt this "inteligent analyst" in being more successful with their phishing.

Sent as what appears to be a warning, the author is purporting to be someone who's obtained intelligence from the dark web about airlines that may "go down" soon. My first thought was that it seemed to be a warning about other airlines' planes meeting the same fate as the recent (at the time of this phishing attempt) Boeing 737 MAX - crashing with no survivors - but I'm not exactly sure as the wording isn't that explicit. What we can gather from the sender is that they're using an email address that maybe have been compromised from Isgec, a heavy engineering company that specializes in a variety of really cool things,, but why this company has a "private inteligent analyst" contacting others in regards to an aircraft crash is not precisely understood. Perhaps Isgec sounds familiar as an industrial company, and thus is warning people about potential defects? I'm admittedly not sure and was unable to find much in the way of Isgec relateing to aerospace in any way aside from providing some equipment for defense, but even then it was mostly reactors and high pressurized plant equipment. It appears the sender is using knowledge obtained in an "information leak from Darkweb," as well as significant news events, to bolster its ethos in a classic fear tactic relying on The Media's influence of what any of these terms mean: hackers are evil (implied from the information leak, of course), the dark web is scary, and they know who's going to die soon. The email asserts that the attached file, which contains malware, will give the recipient this hidden knowledge to presumably save their "love ones" from boarding the airlines who are going to "go down soon."

The email is addressed as generally as possible and worded that it could apply to anyone. The author assumes that everyone has loved ones who would fly on an airplane, and are now in danger. This information "leak" is the one thing between saving them or having them die mid-flight, after all! The implication that would make someone click on this file would be overwhelming guilt if someone did die, and you had the information to save them. In this regard, the generality is particularly useful as it's mostly relying on pathos, especially in this case of emotional manipulation, to deposit its payload onto the target's machine.

Technologically speaking, the file within the email contains two trojans, a data-stealer (Adwind) and a remote access worm (Houdini's h-worm). Adwind is especially dangerous: it captures keystrokes, cryptocurrency wallet keys, and cached passwords. It can also gain access to webcam audio and video feeds, capture screenshots, steal VPN certificates, and transfer files. Even though this attack was from early 2019, it has obfuscated variants that are surviving quite well as of October 2019. H-worm is a bit older but still manages to cause a lot of damage by taking control of a computer remotely, allowing it to install/uninstall programs, send identifying information to a remote server, and collect and delete data from the infected machine.

Rhetorically, the email uses a few types of appeals in order to persuade the victim into clicking on this file. As mentioned above, the use of pathos is prevalent in the email. Combining emotional manipulation with scare tactics concerning death figures from the actual crash that occurred, it easily can convince someone to act - especially if they have someone flying very soon. Logos is also present in this email via the figures and facts stated about the Boeing 737 Max 8 jet that crashed. The email mentions the route which "crashed into the Java Sea 12 minutes after takeoff." It also states a death toll, reiterating that all 189 passengers and crew were killed in the accident. Combining these figures, with the admission of an "information leak" on the dark web from a private intelligence analyst, and an implicated threat of the recipient's victims potentially dying, is more than enough exigency to have someone click on that infected file.

### Emotet
The emotet malspam generally seemed to operate like personal solicitation emails do, in that they either mimicked a conversation had between people, or a dialogue exchange occurred, and then a file was sent. The examples I used all requested the recipient to check in on a recent payment or invoice submitted, which is the file sent in the email containing the malware. The audience appears to be either an employee working on financials for the company or a C-level executive who is in charge of making or receiving payments for the company. Generally, these emails are notably lacking pathos, unlike the Boeing email, and rely heavily on ethos and logos to be successful. Being as impersonal as possible, and conducting business in the typical exchange format, is what makes these phishing attacks so successful. The form fits general conventions: "please find attached remittance advice for our recent payment to you," asking them to contact with any questions, or requests to open a document. What's interesting about the email that asks you to open the attached file is that it also gives the password in the same email itself - certainly not best practices by any stretch of the imagination, but unfortunately a pretty common occurance. Generally, this would be done through a separate channel such as SMS, or even a separate email (although I wouldn't advise that tactic either for security reasons,) and was a red flag to me that this was not legitimate. However, it wouldn't be to some unless they had proper training, and remembered it, which is most likely why they chose to approach the email this way.

Ethos is established through the use of the "previous conversation" tactic, or an existing business relationship. Some of these emails also use tactics much like the Boeing 737 Max email did, in using a "big name" to build their credibility; one of the emails stated that it was sent from Steve Wolfram. My first reaction was thinking, "Wow, the CEO of Wolfram Research," which is most likely what the phisher intended. Upon closer inspection, the email is maintenance@bfcc-bd.com, masked as "steven.wolfram26@gmail.com." If we look just a bit into this, we can see that Mr. Wolfram's email is s.wolfram@wolfram.com, and you can find that information right on his webpage. However, even if mimicking Mr. Wolfram wasn't the intent, and I only noticed it because of my previous interactions with his products, it still had the potential to give just enough of an inkling of familiarity to cause a potential victim to click on that file. Because of the implication of an existing business relationship, these emails are quite successful in that if a non-C level employee who would not have been privy to the original conversation, they may not think twice about the attached conversation in hand, only that it was "official." Also, these attacks are very successful against C-level employees as well. The Verizon 2019 Data Breach Investigation Report states that they "are always under pressure to deliver and so they casually click on every email they get without thinking about security and phishing attacks," are "12 times more vulnerable to cyber attacks," and "9 times more [vulnerable] to data breaches." That's quite a staggering figure, and it's no wonder these emails work so successfully, given the context - they prey on overloaded employees trying to conduct their business as efficiently as possible! Even when the email is littered with strange grammar and typos, it's unsurprising that human error would occur in typing an email quickly to get business complete, and phishers potentially use this "relatability" to their advantage.

In regards to intent, these emails are all about completing a task at hand, most often financial. The urgency presented in these emails is typical in business communications - the faster you pay or get paid, the faster the job is done. Plus, everyone wants to be paid on time for their work, and realistically why shouldn't they be? Offering a point of contact for any questions regarding the email is also a common theme, and makes the email appear more legitimate. One interesting choice of wording in these emails that stuck out was a request to contact the person in the email but listed their full name as opposed to it being self-referential. If Melinda O'Toole sent the email, why would they state, "If you have questions on this please contact Melinda O'Toole for more information?" It's a curious use of phrasing, and I would never direct someone to contact Jennifer Mead if they had any questions - I would ask them to contact me. This referential faux pas is a direct hit to their ethos and one they would be well to correct if they want to make their phishing tactics even more successful. It's certainly a point to remember to discuss when making my training materials!

Overall, these emails fit well with the style and form they were going for and is unsurprising that they are an incredibly successful method of transmission. The Department of Homeland Security has deemed Emotet as one of the most costly and destructive malware," and is responsible for on average $1,000,000 of cleanup per incident. Emotet is very dangerous to an individual or organization, as it gains access to all stored credentials on a machine, even ones that you have saved in your browser. It also can access emails on an infected device, opening the infected victim up to even more trouble. Emotet is a banking trojan, which is a program that looks like a legitimate file until installed (hence the name). It captures passwords, keystrokes, and any other type of data that tends to redirect information about banking and financials to an external server. It also can update itself, which makes fighting this malware even more difficult. In fact, it's been so successful, that 57% of all activity from banking trojans in the first quarter of 2018! These examples follow the highest trend in phishing as well using an invoice or payment being 15.9% of all malware transmitted, with a scanned document coming in at 11.9%. Knowing this, it is especially important to understand how the vectors of transmission - the phishing emails - operate to help protect potential victims, and I'm hoping that I can do that in the near future.

### Lokibot
Lokibot is another trojan which is transmitted much like the Emotet malspam examples above. They are sent disguised as personal communications, with a general request to view a document. Lokibot is an old-school contender but making headlines once again due to newer obfuscated versions of the program. Steganography is even being used in a recent variant, putting in the code necessary for unpacking the program into an image. It's proving difficult to detect with these advanced methods of transmission, which is what makes understanding the email as a vector even more important.

These emails are sent for a variety of "reasons," mostly consisting of requests for quotations, purchase orders, or to look over the attached files. The author presents themselves as someone who already has a working relationship with the client or someone who is looking to gain business with them. The lokibot phishing emails tend to establish ethos through the use of company logos, official titles, and following the general conventions of business communications. In that regard, authority is displayed through the use of company logos, corporate jargon, dnd titles that would befit someone who'd be contacting an organization fo their specific requests, such "Global Sourcing Specialist. [source]"

The intent is apparent in the majority of these emails, with the author directing the victim to view an attachment or send information to the author in response to a document that's been attached. Generally, the real intention of the email is masked through the use of industry-specific terms or somewhat formal requests for product information, but many of these fail to do this properly. For instance, one example states: "Please findattachedproforma for your acknowledgement and kindly send thefinal PI in order to proceed with the request foradvance payment." This statement is riddled with typos, and is even addressed to "Dearsir/madam," both of which are a dead giveaway that someone who is appearing to conduct sales is not who they seem to be. These emails are hoping that the lack of proper grammar is misconstrued as a language barrier because the majority of these emails appear to originate from outside of the potential victim's country of origin. Other attempts to mask that it's a phishing email include statements such as thank you very much for your time during the Fair," implying that there was a previous interaction with the individual.

The audience of these emails appears to be someone who is in charge of making purchasing or work contracts. Frequently, you see the use of the PI abbreviation, which generally means "purchase invoice." In the context of these types of emails, I assume that's what the author was intending to mean when requesting PI from a potential victim. The use of "in" language in these emails implies that the victim and phisher have a shared sense of identity - they are both business people, conducting business, with the hope that both will profit from the venture. While the emails don't explicitly state that they are requesting another audience, it could be inferred that they would be forwarded to an appropriate person if needed.

The rhetorical appeals present in these emails tend to be ethos and logos - there are generally no emotional appeals in business communications unless it is a proposal (but even then, not often.) Ethos is present primarily in how the authors present themselves and the company they're "representing." Some go quite far and have an entire footer in an email talking about their company. Some have copyright notices, while others have mentioned "going green" by not printing the email. All of these are not uncommon, and I've observed similar email footers from legitimate senders. It's a great way to make it seem like the email is from a "real" person as opposed to a phishing scam. Logos is present through the use of contact information for the "real" person, including phone numbers, addresses, and websites. Also, the use of specific invoice numbers and product SKUs is a fantastic example of the phisher using logos to make it seem like what is communicated is truthful, and not an attempt to deposit a virus payload onto someone's computer.

### Hancitor
The Hancitor emails operated much like a clonephishing email would, mimicking notices from corporations like Docusign and HelloFax. For brevity's sake, please see the detailed analysis for clonephishing in regards to how these emails operate rhetorically. I have found no difference, aside from what the end goal of the phisher is. As opposed to phishing campaigns that look to obtain credentials from a user inputting them outright, Hancitor acts as a gateway to do that without having the user enter anything. Classified as a macro-based malware, Hancitor operates by installing banking trojans as the primary payload from remote servers. Remember, banking trojans compromise computers by accessing their saved credentials and target financial information, and being able to get these payloads through a macro is a pretty ingenious way to run undetected. In the early days, Hancitor was inserted as a macro in a Word document, but the increase in quality of email virus and spam filters tend to catch these. This increase in detectability has made Hancitor distribution evolve, and now files are generally hosted on independent servers, either manufactured and mimicked or legitimate and compromised. The Hancitor malware is transmitted through a downloadable file inside a link encoded with the victim's email address. In some instances, the email address from the link gets added to a database of phished victims, presumably to get a better understanding of which systems are and (or aren't) scanning for malware. The DocuSign and HelloFax examples provided in the corpus are an example of that. For further reading, an excellent technical post from Palo Alto Networks' Unit 42 goes into depth about Hancitor's new transmission methods here.

### Conclusion
Overall, I would say that the malspam emails have appeared to be the second most effective so far next to clonephishing. What makes these types of emails work so well is that they not only prey on busy, overworked employees, but do so in a way that isn't exactly unusual for business communications. By requesting a quote on products, or offering an invoice, it's creating a situation that would usually exist but doesn't - mimicking a standard, everyday routine that probably wouldn't be noticed unless you were paying attention. Realistically, no one is on guard 100% of the time, which is why it's so important to understand what makes these work language-wise to prevent future attacks.

## PSE
Personal Solicitation Emails (PSE) typically follow the genre of letter writing. They tend to be personal, or request favors in exchange for information. The tone of these letters tends to be familiar, and often use emotive language or harsh threats (almost bordering bathos at times) to persuade their victim to become phished. PSE's are the classic "Nigerian Prince" or "craigslist" scams. For this category, I am using a framework of analysis developed by Derek Ross in his article, "Ars Dictaminis Perverted," where he describes the personal solicitation email as a specific genre of letter writing. In this, Ross discusses the 19 categories that define a PSE, each of which falls under the rhetorical appeals. If you'd like a detailed explanation of these, see his research and tables here. Ethos constructed the identity of the author as real and having both the authority and ability to ask for help. The categories measured were Formality, Institutional Markers, Market Terminology, Nationality, Politeness, Religiosity, Safety, and Titles. Pathos focused on exhausting the reader emotionally and focused on the categories Adventure/roguishness, Charity, Death, EgoComplimentary, EgoPoor Letter Construction, and Honor. Logos attempted to prove that the author and letter were real. The categories examined here are Contact Information, Financial Specificity, Format, and Offers to Meet in Person. Kairos is noted to only have one appeal of urgency, but it appeared in almost every letter examined by Ross and his team. These categories provide an ample rhetorical framework to look at the PSE as a subgenre of letter-writing and give an excellent framework for rhetorical analysis. The following paragraphs use each of these categories, represented by bold text, to understand how each email or email thread worked.

### The Spanish Law & Investment Firm
This unsolicited email functions as a proposal to invest a considerable amount of money in what seemed like a laundering effort. Ethos constructs itself through a variety of categories. Formality was generally abided by, although there was strange grammar within the mail itself. However, potential ESL constructions fall in line with the nationality category, as this investment firm is from Spain. They wanted you to know that, "Antonio Capilla, a financial and investment management lawyer and an investment consultant law firm," has all the institutional markers present to attempt to persuade the recipient that this email is legitimate. They demonstrate market terminology as well, repetitively using variants of the words invest, assist, and client throughout the letter. Incredibly polite, but concerned with their client's safety, they're operating well within their title's constraints as a financial and investment management lawyer, and hope that you believe them to get that fresh 30% of $10,000,000 USD. Pathos is formed through the adventure/roguishness category, stating that their client's sensitive position necessitates the investment of funds to the recipient in order "to make the fund release process easier," which sounds like money laundering, but who am I to judge? It also has a slight ego-poor letter contruction component to it, again due to potential ESL conventions within the grammar. This PSE demonstrates the logos appeal through both financial specificity (30% of US$10 Million Dollars) and format, with the email following the parameters of what constitutes a letter, to the letter - a greeting, body with the main idea, and a salutation. Simple, efficient, and "honest." Finally, urgency is demonstrated only through a request to "kindly write me back urgently," and doesn't exactly scream "do this now!" Meeting 12 out of 19 parameters makes this a pretty well-constructed PSE with a majority of the common markers of a personal solicitation phishing email.

### A Charity Donation from Maria Elisabeth
This email is a series of emails I received over a short amount of time. Initially, I received two different phishing attempts - one from an Indian government email (which was presumed to be compromised), and another from a random Gmail address. Both directed me to contact Marie Elisabeth, but though different email addresses. I decided to respond to the second attempt, as I was a bit bored and wanted to see how far I could get with the phisher. Upon receiving my response, "Marie" responded with the initial phish. Ethos construction happened through institutional markers and titles such as the name-dropping of a Forbes link to Marie Elisabeth's profile, as well as "SCHAEFFLER AG, HERZOGENAURACH" in her signature. The email was decidedly informal, and the writing in poor form, likely playing up the "elderly widow from Germany" appeal. Nationality played with safety here, as they haphazardly described how they wanted to remain incognito but gift this "blessing," assuring you to "please don't be bothered as to why you have been contacted for this and its genuineness as I have done so from a pure motive." I also had a few retorts to my apprehension, but it was unlike the initial polite pleading and begging to accept the money and not ask questions. Instead, they asked me to provide my information repeatedly, even after I asked if this was "real" or not. "If you are serious to receive the donations kindly provide us with your details in other to refer you to my bank okay," doesn't exactly instill confidence, especially saying it twice. Unfortunately, playing apprehensive did not coerce the phisher to try and persuade me, something that I would have gladly given the whole fake dossier I generated just for the occasion! I would suggest to any aspiring phishers reading these texts that you engage with your victim because if you make them feel connected to you (instead of scammed by you), they'd be willing to give you that sweet, sweet information much easier.

Pathos focused on charity and death, due to her husband's death and her impending implied death she wants to give away all her money because it is of no use to her. By helping her take this massive amount of money, she's hoping that you use it to help others - a "pay it forward" situation. She plays on both ego categories subtlely, implying that I am "good" like churches, orphanages, and other charitable organizations shes also contacted, but does so haphazardly and struggles with English as a method of contact. She asks that "for the sake that it might seem too easy for you to receive this gift don't justify that life is easy, I would crave your indulgence not to refer any person whatsoever to me so that I can have my peace." She is "doing this as a free-spirit gift," and "made the contact myself to you, therefore, don't refer any person and don't make a public/media show of this as I would not like any publicity of any sort." The intent is clearly for you to feel sorry for this massively wealthy but widowed, elderly German woman.

Logos is present within all four categories outlined by Ross. You see it in contact information with the Forbes profile and multiple email addresses being sent to respond to in the initial "bait" cast. In regards to financial specificity, not only does the title of "Cash Grant Donation of 1,700,000" quantify this but also her admission of giving you that amount of money as a beneficiary out of a total of 50 million! You're not the only piece in this puzzle, but you're still a large one. The initial response followed the letter format amply; however, replies were quick and ill-thought-out in regards to keeping the form. Finally, offers to meet were outright rejected due to the desire to keep this out of the public eye. This email also had a distinct lack of urgency, leaving responding on my terms. Perhaps it was a language barrier, but again there was nothing I saw that prompted me to reply immediately. By meeting 15 out of 19 categories, this email was a great example of a PSE, as defined by Ross.

### The Columbus Rental Application
This email is in response to my husband and I looking for a rental property in anticipation of an out-of-state move on craigslist. Since I solicited this email, it operated a bit differently than the unsolicited emails received. Ethos was formed through market terminology, repeating variations of owning or renting the house, taking care of the property, and mentioning maintenance or maintaining the property throughout the letter. It also manifested through institutional markers and titles related to the World Mission, a missionary operation which Reverand Joseph Cameron King & Family were all members of. He assured me the prospect was safe, because they are simply renting "due to our transfer to (Topeka, Kansas) on a Missionary Work in a church here named World Mission, so we are renting it out since we need someone to take good care of the property on our absent." They reiterated safety over and over throughout the email, with mentions abotu realtors charging too much comission and being unhappy about that, so the listings were left up but assured it was not for sale, that he did own the property, and I could even come to look at it if I wanted to. The email was generally polite but stern, probably trying to emulate the Reverand personality.

Pathos was abundant in this email. King assured me that "we are renting the house to you base on trust and again i will want you to stick to your words," holding me to honor his wishes else I would be a disappointment. He wanted me to feel good about the missionary work he was doing and was looking for me to do an act of goodwill (charity) by renting from him. The email had strong notes of ego-poor letter construction, but I was not informed if Reverand King was identifying as an "other" or not to play up this appeal. The religiosity present in ethos also translated to pathos as well, but this was not necessarily a pathos-specific marker for Ross.

Logos was presented through contact information and financial specificity, with a phone number, address, and monthly cost given as expected for a rental inquiry. The email followed the conventions of a letter, and even included a long list of application information I was expected to fill out. Unfortunately for this phisher, the request for a family photograph, whether or not I was home at night, and other too-personal questions instantly told me this was an illegitimate rental. King did display urgency, requesting I text him at the number given immediately after applying, presumably because he didn't check his email often, which showed he did care about getting back to me as soon as he could. I appreciated the promptness; it was much less murky than others who seemed to care less whether or not they successfully phished me! Overall, this email hit 14 of 19 categories, making it a good representation of a PSE.

### The St. Cloud House for Rent
This email is also in response to when my husband and I were looking for a rental property locally when we still lived in Minnesota. We solicited this individual through craigslist, and after a follow-up email from no initial response, they responded apologetically. It's been one of my favorite phishing/scam emails that I've ever received due to the blatant copy-paste of descriptions of UNESCO and Education for All as his job descriptions, the random mention of his wife as a part of Joyce Meyer ministries, and the desire to have "a good and responsible tenant that is God fearing and a good christian." this email was more religious than the previous example, and that supposedly came from a Reverand! It was all so bathetic that I remember sharing it with a few people in awe of how ridiculous it sounded.

Ethos presented itself through institutional markers and titles, namely mentioning and linking both UNESCO and EFA and mentioning that his wife is with Joyce Meyer, who is an "American Charismatic Christian author and speaker." Adding in bible quotes and letting me know "that is not the money that really matters because we believe both the rich and poor deserve a better home" really hit home with religosity, but unfortunately, a bit too much for it to be useful as a credibility enhancer. Ultimately, their attempt at using religion to bolster ethos evolved it into pathos over ethos, hence my description of bathetic earlier. They attempted to make up for the failings of ethos with reassurances of safety, stating that they were "sorry for the lateness in my response and as am very busy at work lately," hopefully removing the fear that it's something different than what it is. They also explain in detail how, if I were to see the house listed for sale, it was due to agents inflating the price, and they became unhappy with how it was being handled and decided to rent it out. This scenario doesn't make sense because firstly, you'd want to make as much money as you can, right? And secondly, if the home were delisted, the agents would have removed the listings. But maybe if you're unfamiliar with how that works, it wouldn't be strange to you, and everything explained to you felt safe. Especially since the only reason why he can't meet us in person is "now that we are out of the state my reasons for leaving with my family is that i love my family and i go everywhere with them now that we are not around." A family man, he wants to take care of the obligations he had to leave when moving for work! The only hint I received that this could be part of the nationality category was when they mentioned they "spent less time in the States so I could not get a hold on any Realtor to handle this rent issue," but no indication that they were foreign aside from language use.

Surprisingly, this only met a single category in pathos from Ross - ego-poor letter consruction - although I'm not exactly sure why it was written like this as there were no indicators within the email that they wanted to identify as an "outsider." I did also see the religion and "do-gooder" description of missionaries in EFA and UNESCO and as a stretch into bathos. It did however meet every marker of logos, with contact information represented with not only two places of employment, but a phone number and the address where the house is available for rent. Financial specificity was in the amount of rent and security deposit. The format was slightly relevant; it was a letter, and they certainly tried to follow conventions, but it was very poorly written. Finally, like many others, the individual could not meet in person, but could conduct business through the mail due to being out of state.

Relying on me to respond to this letter, I have been left once again with a lack of kairos. However, 13 out of 19 markers make this a relatively good example of a PSE. While I was disappointed a decent property ended up being yet another craigslist scam, it made a great (and hilarious) example in my phishing email analysis, so I'm happy with the results in the end.

### "Been Trying to Reach You"
A rather odd email, I received a seemingly disappointed yet urgent notice from a woman named Elizabeth Lyonsfield. Meeting absolutely none of the ethos markers Ross defined, I had no idea how to assess who this woman was or why she was contacting me. Pathos was constructed through ego-poor letter construction, but only because the grammar and capitalization were suspect. Elizabeth meets logos only through having a proper letter format. She pleads for me to react urgently, and states, "I hope to hear back from you soonest." But since I have no idea who she is, where she's from, or what she wants, I didn't respond. Only receiving 3 out of 19 markers makes this PSE pretty rough.

### A Private Proposal
This phishing email was very bland and generally did not show many categorical markers found in PSEs. Ethos was constructed through a single institutional marker, "DBS Singapore." There is no indication as to what this is, though, so calling it a marker is a broad definition. Presumably located in Singapore, this would also pull on the nationality marker, perhaps making sense of the lack of content due to a language barrier. I feel like I'm reaching here a bit with both of these markers since they're the only definable ethos traits within Ross' framework present within this email - and barely present at that. Pathos is present within the ego-poor letter construction category, but there is no more information outside of, "Greetings, I have a Private proposal of 58 Million EUR for your consideration," feeling like a shaky definition in pathos as well. Logos was straightforward with the financial specificity category, stating that the proposal was for 58 million. The format was that of a letter - greeting, middle, end - but not so much informative. Notably, there was a lack of urgency in this email. Barely meeting 5 of 19 categories, it does not make an effective PSE but is still technically a phishing email.

### Conclusion
While I don't personally feel that these emails are particularly effective as phishing emails, especially compared to other categories, due to the overly emotive, remarkably (un)reasonable request that you provide private information to an unknown individual for millions of dollars out of the blue (or worse, pay them and compromise yourself) people still fall for them, so it's essential to understand why they work.

I was disappointed that while Ross observed urgency as one of the two most widespread appeals, I did not experience that observation even with the solicited emails, only seeing 50% of my sample displaying this. Kairos remained decidedly lukewarm, at best. Maybe the phishers were feeling especially lazy when emailing me, but I did not see any exemplifying the definition of "the less time an audience thinks they have, the less time they will take to analyze the email." But overall, the PSE category seems to follow many of the conventions outlined by Ross. It is a practical framework to use when wanting to understand the rhetorical appeals and conventions present within well-written and thought-out phishing emails, and solidly establishes those types of PSE within the letter-writing genre.

## Spearphishing
Spearphishing is a sophisticated phishing attack that combines social engineering, publicly available data, and personalized emails phishers use to target their victims into giving them information, credentials, or financial gain. It gets its name due to the targetted nature of the attack, with these emails having had the time spent on them to target individuals. Spearphishing can and does include things like vishing (voice phishing) and smishing (SMS-phishing); however, it is outside of the scope of this project in regards to analyzing phishing emails. I do intend to address that in my future work outside of this portfolio, so bookmark me and come back if you'd like to find out more from my perspective.

A subset of this type of attack is called whaling. As the name implies, it is a type of spearphishing attack aimed at bigger fish - high-level executives - which is incredibly effective as they often do not take part in security awareness training with their employees. A great example of this is the Podesta email phish, which was the same one responsible for Colin Powell's email leaks as well. If you're curious about how that one worked, I covered the Podesta email phish in great detail here. I am using two types of examples for the spearphishing category here: a general (and typical) spearphish and extortion - dubbed "sextortion" in the media. While each of these function differently, they still are using the same phishing mechanisms to capture victims' information, deposit a payload, or compromise them financially.

### General Spearphishing
Since spearphishing generally behaves as if it's an email from someone within an organization to another within it. Usually, it's an attempt to mimic existing business relationships through the use of email templates from companies such as eBay, Apple, Facebook, or other commonly used platforms. This type of data can come from a company's database that is compromised and leaked or publicly available data such as usernames and profiles or gathered through social engineering tactics. Spearphishing attacks generally create their ethos through the use of company names/logos, spoofing email addresses to match the organizations, or outright cloning business communications. The method of how the author displays ethos varies depending on what they're doing. For instance, a spearphishing clone email looks like a receipt for a purchase or a compromised account alert, while other spearphishing attempts can look more like a document from HR or a giveaway announcement within a specific community. Most of the time, spearphishing emails follow the conventions of the "genre" they are using or impersonating. As such, the rhetorical appeals, tropes, and form present in the email (the argument) vary depending on their use. As such, analyzing this category as a generality seems less useful than directing you towards other types of phishing, especially since they employ the same tactics, but with added personalization. Instead of "member" or "hello sir/madam," you'll see your name or other identifying information that can lead you to believe it's genuine. Phishing plus social engineering equals spearphishing. Keeping that in mind makes this category that much easier to understand on a rhetorical level.

### Sextortion
A spearphishing type that deserves a bit more attention is extortion scams, specifically "sextortion" scams. These typically imply that the victim has been caught using illegal forms of pornography (such as child or animal pornography,) masturbating while at work, or have incriminating pictures or videos of themselves engaging in sexual acts. These campaigns have been incredibly popular - and successful - in the last few years, causing damage both financially and unfortunately, physically. They've made the rounds recently, too. In 2018 and 2019, there was a series of sextortion bitcoin scams designed to scare people into giving the phishers money. In this phishing scam specifically, emails and their old connected passwords from data breaches leaked onto the internet were inserted into these emails to catch the attention of the victim. As you would expect from an extortion-based scam, they rely on an immediate emotional response to work. The fear of the unknown in regards to what a hacker can do, plus the cultural aspect of shame and guilt in regards to pornography usage, is what I think makes these particular extortion spearphishing campaigns so successful.

Phishers state the emails are sent from a fake or unmonitored email, cutting off the victim from any possibility of contact outside of a Bitcoin (BTC) address, and thus the identity of the phisher is constructed as a hacker who put a virus on a pornography website. Their credibility is enhanced further by showing an old password used for that email, most likely obtained through a data leak/breach. The discussion of RAT/trojans and how the email is spoofed is an example of "in" language that can be used to complicate, create fear, and obfuscate the situation that it's just a phishing email, and none of this is true. They also use threatening language and emotional manipulation, with threats to ruin the life of the victim and financial extortion to prevent video leaks. Plus, since Hackers Love Crypto, the mention of a Bitcoin wallet only further adds to that image the all-powerful and elusive hacker, dangling their unfortunate, helpless victim by a digital thread, ready to end their life in a simple click. You're the entertainment, and this hacker isn't afraid to cause you hell in exchange for some coin.


Sextortion scams have a lot of underlying assumptions at play to be effective. These attacks assume the user uses porn sites, especially those that may be considered risque (while being decidedly (unfortunately?) normal) such as "young Teens." However, knowing these are for anyone whose data leaked in a breach, it's unsurprising they'd use something that "common" while still playing the shame card - "The last time you visited a erotic [sic] website with young Teens [...] You are very perverted!" I did some digging around and found an article from MalwareBytes that discusses the recent wave of sextortion scams from February 2019, and what struck me more was not the content but the user comments. Across the board, it seems as if these are "missing their mark," with people generally reporting across the board how funny or misplaced they were for contacting them in the first place due to not using porn or having a webcam. What these emails fail to consider then is that perhaps the user doesn't use pornography at all, or that perhaps they reject camera interfaces on their computers by either covering, disabling, or removing them entirely. I suppose the number of people who reject camera interfaces or don't use pornography is probably minimal. The sample size from a comments section on a security blog certainly isn't a valid metric to use for a general analysis, but I'm guessing the non-porn or security-conscious folks were not a consideration to the phisher. That being said, these emails still have been relatively financially successful, with one BTC address used in this phishing campaign receiving .28 BTC (around $2300 USD) in one week. There's a market for these types of emails, or they wouldn't keep going around every so often.

### Conclusion
Spearphishing emails operate as a personalized version of general phishing emails and can vary greatly depending on the form taken. Since the "spear" implied a targetted attack, any email that is personally addressed (as opposed to a bulk mailing) is considered a spearphish. These aren't always individually written, and they could be compiled and auto-generated based on whatever database of leaked user data is available. But measures are taken to make them feel personal, and that is the dangerous aspect of spearphishing. Because these emails take a little more effort from the phisher to pull off successfully, chances are they're more put together and less easy to spot. After all, if you're going to invest your time in creating a dossier on a victim, you might as well do it right the first time.

## Phishing Email Corpus
See website.
